you've seen High inflation and I'm here
to tell you it's going to get worse what
we are experiencing now is going to seem
like a Disney movie in comparison to
where we're heading why is that the case
well there are so many factors lining up
I'm going to show you some of those
today and the conditions in the economy
continue to worsen but we don't just sit
there we don't just take it we don't
just put our hands up in the air and say
that's the end of that we take action
and if we take action we can not only
Thrive we can prosper and we can
actually have the ability to choose our
own circumstances yes I know it's not
easy we're not going to get there by
sitting down we need to take action
let's begin the first thing we're going
to look at what's going on with debt
with the circumstances of people's
spending habits the consumer this comes
from Seeking Alpha when you go Seeking
Alpha you get the transcripts uh from
these different calls and this is Darden
and basically that's you know the a
parent company of Olive Garden okay and
this is what he had to say this is just
some anecdotal evidence I believe is
important okay there is a tension to
being what people want to pay and what
they can afford and they are going to
continue to seek value not always about
low price they're making trade-offs and
food away from home is one of the most
difficult things that they can give up
basically saying that in addition to
this near the top we are seeing a little
softness versus last year with household
incomes above 125
000 and that primarily affects our fine
dining Brands but it does affect all of
our Brands and so even those individuals
out there making what used to be
considered a good amount of money that's
not the case anymore
all right because inflation is so hot
that even those making that 125 are
still feeling the burden and this is
somebody telling you right from the very
top of this big Corporation how it's
affecting their company that means they
do not have the disposable income they
did before that doesn't mean nobody's
going out it just means that there's a
reduction there absolutely okay if
you're interested in Seeking Alpha you
can get that link in the description
okay always some interesting stuff
through there in their premium service
looking at what people are experiencing
I think it's pretty obvious the savings
rate is down it's miserable at the same
time we have debt credit card levels at
the highest they've ever been before a
very bad recipe and you could see right
now that it's actually declined ever
slow slightly and why the expectation is
that people have been tapped out I think
it's a little blip and we're going to
see that as time goes on on because
there always seems to be more for people
to spend credit cards you know their
average interest right now is what you
know based on what I've seen you can
pull that data from different places 22
to 28
shocking because people are carrying a
balance of somewhere between six
thousand seven thousand I've seen
numbers of ten thousand dollars on
average just depends on you know where
you're pulling that from and so we got
to think to ourselves where are we
headed with this this is not sustainable
to be in this level of debt both on the
individual and the nation itself but you
actually look at like the prospects
coming forward not very good not very
strong and so yeah we're seeing that a
little bit and some different indicators
but I don't think it's fully taken hold
yet all right so you've got to
understand that oil gas Transportation
all of these right now these costs are
surging and yeah you probably feel that
at the pump but know that it goes a
level up the producers and when things
got to move from one place to another
imagine you're driving down the highway
you're seeing these big trucks going
everywhere when you think about how
something gets from a different country
into yours that has to move and of
course there are costs associated with
it now those prices might be from let's
say six months ago that they agreed to
but now today they're negotiating prices
and those prices are higher because of
these Transportation costs all right and
we have that debt will always be used to
its maximum it doesn't matter their
people are going to squeeze every last
drop out of it so just keep that in mind
whenever we see stats above debt I have
seen the cheapest products I don't know
if it was Amazon or what have you you
may have seen this yourself please let
me know in the comments but you're going
to go online you're going to be browsing
for an item and then and it will tell
you you know this is 20 bucks or
whatever and then it will say pay with
you know four easy payments
and I just thought to myself this
product is something around the lines of
twenty dollars and I'm being offered a
payment plan
I mean that to me shows that I mean
obviously it's just I'm sure it's just
the algorithm it just puts it out there
maybe but is it based on price like how
does it determine that or is it on every
product I don't know but there's no
reason why a 20 item should ever have a
payment plan that to me is shocking look
at this the real reason for Saudi
Arabia's oil production Cuts now you
might ask yourself why they want to
increase the price right
well some people say you could see this
right here Saudi Arabia and Russia
extended their oil production Cuts first
made in July contrary to the belief it
was to raise oil prices the iea faces
criticism for its forecasts with claims
it has shifted from forecasting to
political advocacy and so we could see
that despite the rising sales of
electric vehicles and alternative energy
sources Global oil domain demand remains
strong challenging many predictions
about the oil Market's future Saudi
Arabia said we're not doing this to
increase the price we're doing this
because we believe that oil demand is
going to fall and what they're trying to
say in this oil price article is that
we are witnessing strong demand still
so if it's still there what are they
saying well obviously there's an
expectation of recession full-blown
recession and if that's the case you've
got China buying less you've got U.S
buying less all the countries are buying
less and then that would mean that you
know we would have this big fall in the
price but if they get ahead of that
they're expecting that you know this
would be sort of leveling out I guess
that's what their intention is and so we
don't know for sure we never know but it
is making the price go up as of the now
so uh you know people are feeling that
and that's all that really matters I I
think that the average individual and
what they experience when they go to the
pump when they have their bank account
they look at their statement what's left
that's really the only thing that
matters why Saudi Arabia and Russia have
done this or that that's less important
in my opinion it's you that we need to
focus on we've got more though American
Eagle Sue's owners of San Francisco
Westfield mall over rampant criminal
activity 100 significant security
incidents in one year we know this
you've seen the videos online you have
these big groups of people they go in
they start stealing from the store or
I've even seen the single individuals
and somebody's just recording them where
they just you know put their big bag
they just throw everything into the big
bag one I saw the guy had done this four
times a day
four times a day why it was working well
for him
right uh there is no General generally
no punishment uh but at the same time I
think it shows us what has happened to
prosperity and that is it has gone out
the window where is the prospect if
people were you know abundant in the
amount of money that they had and their
food and their bellies and things they
probably wouldn't do this stuff right
because they're actively working they're
doing their nine to five the bills are
getting paid and things like that of
course you know there's two different
ways if you read the book Freakonomics
Freakonomics and their super
Freakonomics it talks about the number
one thing I got from that book was about
incentives and that's what drives people
it's the incentives so do you have
incentives incentives to work incentives
not to work there's a lot happening
right now and I want your opinions all
over that okay let me know each and
every time they do the same thing people
are going to be laid off a simple matter
of fact so we got to get our stuff
together what can you do I'm going to
tell you right here number one be more
localized get to know your farmer you
can do this you can get cheaper prices
there's no question about it maybe not
that accessible but sometimes those
Farmers come in uh on a particular you
know the farmers markets and things the
many cities have areas where they'll
you know different retail kind of
locations where they'll set up shop and
you can go in there you can talk to them
you could build a relationship not on
the first day but you keep going back to
them week after week talk to them hey
how are you I love your food I love this
and that and you start to build that
relationship you can potentially buy in
bulk get a discount that's something to
think about uh growing your own of
course is absolutely worth it to be
growing your own you could be growing
micro greens oh I don't have space grow
micro greens seven to 14 days you got
some stuff don't make an excuse don't
say oh that's that's not going to change
anything it is
don't make excuse I don't want to hear
no excuses okay whatever it is in your
life that you want you go and you get it
why do you need my permission for that
you don't and 3D printer is the last
thing I think 3D printers are going to
become more popular not the for the toys
and stuff but that you can literally
localize your production for a lot of
products uh I'm seeing some amazing 3D
printers now like they're doing some
real good stuff so imagine in your
garage in your basement you got
something and by the way all of the I
think it's thing verse thing verse if
I'm not mistaken where they give you all
the you know the schematics or whatever
for free so you input that into your 3D
printer you push one button and that
thing's gonna be printed out for you A
lot of these products that you were
buying at the dollar store no longer do
you have to do that so 3D printer I
think that's going to make a big
difference overall okay if you want more
information about your your investing if
you want to know about your to go
through a financial audit for yourself
if you want so many more details it's
all available at the brand new
themoneygps.com you got check this out I
built this for you you'll see why go in
the moneygps.com when you go you're
going to see a bunch of things including
compass compass is the big one I want
you to go and check that out only 300
people so far have seen Compass I want
you to be the next one you give me your
feedback please let me know what you
think all right the Federal Reserve
continues to
it'll push this out there in their
message that they're trying to help you
at the same time they're creating
inflation and inflation is the most
devastating of all acts so are you
prepared are you making those those
determinations in your current
circumstance get on Compass figure it
all out message me if you need the
details everything you need to know
Compass at the moneygps.com thank you
for tuning in I'll see you on the next
one